Updated the data download process and added notebook to extract TCGA data (#6)
WayScience/tcga-joint-representation: 0.download-data/README.md

# Introduction - Data Download Procedure

> The Genomic Data Commons (GDC) portal offers API access to download clinical, image and genomic data for patient cases. We will leverage Python to access the API endpoints and download case data related to TCGA

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Genomic Data Commons (GDC) portal offers API access to download clinical, image and genomic data for patient cases.
We will leverage Python to access the API endpoints and download case data related to TCGA.
```

We use [one-sentence-per-line](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=31808093) in all markdown files.

Also note the nature of this comment. It is a [github suggestion](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests/incorporating-feedback-in-your-pull-request), which means there is a specific optional procedure for quickly incorporating the change.

### Search Data

> Using a wide set of parameters, the GDC API can be queried to return results of a search or details about a specific entity. Helper features are available to assist the user in building their query and understand available fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can query the GDC API using a wide set of parameters to return results of a search or details about a specific entity.
The API provides helper features to assist the user in building their query and understand available fields.
```

One-sentence-per-line. Also, please use active voice in scientific writing, instead of passive voice :)

### Download Files

> The GDC API can be used to serve data to the user. If restricted data is requested, a token must be provided by the user along with the API call. This token can be downloaded directly from the GDC Data Portal or the GDC Data Submission Portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GDC API can serve data to the user.
If restricted data is requested, the user must provide a token along with the API call.
The user can download this token directly from the GDC Data Portal or the GDC Data Submission Portal.
```

Can you also provide a url to where the user can obtain the token?

Reviewer: (one-sentence-per-line, plus switching to active voice)

Author: Added GDC authentication token link to the list of important links at the bottom of README

### Data Download Process

> **1. TCGA case data extraction** - Identify relevant fields from the data model. Here we will choose all patients under the TCGA program

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**1. TCGA case data extraction** - Identify relevant fields from the data model.
Here we choose all patients under the TCGA program.
```

Reviewer: one sentence per line

* Create variable for the cases API endpoint

```cases_endpt = "https://api.gdc.cancer.gov/cases"```

* Create a dictionary for the fields we want to retrieve

```fields = [
    "case_id",
    "submitter_id",
    "project.program.name",
    "project.project_id",
    "demographic.ethnicity",
    "demographic.gender",
    "demographic.race",
    "primary_diagnosis",
    "diagnoses.icd_10_code",
    "diagnoses.age_at_diagnosis",
    "disease_type",
    "primary_site",
    "demographic.year_of_birth",
    "demographic.year_of_death",
    "demographic.days_to_death",
    "demographic.vital_status"
    ]

fields = ",".join(fields)
```
* Apply the filter to extract records related to the TCGA program 

```
filters = {
            "op": "in",
            "content":{
            "field": "project.program.name",
            "value": ["TCGA"]
            }
    }
```

> * Convert the filters parameter from a dictionary to JSON-formatted string and use a POST request to get the data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Convert the filters parameter from a dictionary to JSON-formatted string and use a POST request to get the data

```

Adding a new line character for consistency

```
params = {
    "filters": json.dumps(filters),
    "fields": fields,
    "format": "JSON",
    "size": "11500"
    }

response = requests.post(cases_endpt, headers = {"Content-Type": "application/json"}, json = params)
```

> ### Important links

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Important links

```

New line for consistency.

It is really nice to see the links here! Well done!

# Introduction - Data Download Procedure

The Genomic Data Commons (GDC) portal offers API access to download clinical, image and genomic data for patient cases.
We will leverage Python to access the API endpoints and download case data related to TCGA.

### Search Data

We can query the GDC API using a wide set of parameters to return results of a search or details about a specific entity.
The API provides helper features to assist the user in building their query and understand available fields.

### Download Files

The GDC API can be used to serve data to the user. 
If restricted data is requested, a token must be provided by the user along with the API call. 

> This token can be downloaded directly from the GDC Data Portal or the GDC Data Submission Portal.

Reviewer: These two sentences (lines 14 and 15) are still passive voice. Please convert to active voice :)
